{% assign device = site.data.devices[page.device] %}
{% include note_autogenerated.html %}

## Introduction

These instructions will hopefully assist you to start with a stock {{ device.vendor }} {{ device.name }}, unlock the bootloader (if necessary), and then download
the required tools as well as the very latest source code for LineageOS (based on Google’s Android operating system) for your device. Using these, you can build both
LineageOS and LineageOS Recovery image from source code, and then install them both to your device.

It is difficult to say how much experience is necessary to follow these instructions. While this guide is certainly not for the very very very uninitiated,
these steps shouldn’t require a PhD in software development either. Some readers will have no difficulty and breeze through the steps easily.
Others may struggle over the most basic operation. Because people’s experiences, backgrounds, and intuitions differ, it may be a good idea to read through
just to ascertain whether you feel comfortable or are getting over your head.

Remember, you assume all risk of trying this, but you will reap the rewards! It’s pretty satisfying to boot into a fresh operating system you baked at home :).
And once you’re an Android-building ninja, there will be no more need to wait for “nightly” builds from anyone. You will have at your fingertips the skills to
build a full operating system from code to a running device, whenever you want. Where you go from there-- maybe you’ll add a feature, fix a bug, add a translation,
or use what you’ve learned to build a new app or port to a new device-- or maybe you’ll never build again-- it’s all really up to you.

### What you'll need

* A {{ device.vendor }} {{ device.name }}
* A relatively recent 64-bit computer (Linux, OS X, or Windows) with a reasonable amount of RAM and about 100 GB of free storage (more if you enable `ccache`
 or build for multiple devices). The less RAM you have, the longer the build will take (aim for 8 GB or more). Using SSDs results in considerably faster
 build times than traditional hard drives.
* A USB cable compatible with the {{ device.vendor }} {{device.name}}
* A decent internet connection and reliable electricity :)
* Some familiarity with basic Android operation and terminology. It would help if you've installed custom roms on other devices and are familiar with recovery.
 It may also be useful to know some basic command line concepts such as `cd`, which stands for “change directory”, the concept of directory hierarchies, and that in Linux they are separated by /, etc.

{% include tip.html content="If you are not accustomed to using Linux, this is an excellent chance to learn. It’s free -- just download and run a virtual machine (VM) such as
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org), then install a Linux distribution such as [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com) ([AOSP vets Ubuntu as well](https://source.android.com/source/initializing.html)).
Any recent 64-bit version should work great, but the latest Long Term Support (LTS) version is recommended. There are plenty of instructions on setting up VirtualBox to run Ubuntu, so we'll leave that to you." %}

Let's begin!

## Build LineageOS and LineageOS Recovery

{% include note.html content="You only need to do these steps once. If you have already prepared your build environment and downloaded the source code,
skip to [Prepare the device-specific code](#prepare-the-device-specific-code)" %}

### Install the SDK

If you haven't previously installed `adb` and `fastboot`, you can [download them from Google](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/platform-tools-latest-linux.zip).
Extract it running:

```
unzip platform-tools-latest-linux.zip -d ~
```

Now you have to add `adb` and `fastboot` to your PATH. Open `~/.profile` and add the following:

```
# add Android SDK platform tools to path
if [ -d "$HOME/platform-tools" ] ; then
    PATH="$HOME/platform-tools:$PATH"
fi
```

Then, run `source ~/.profile` to update your environment.

### Install the build packages

Several packages are needed to build LineageOS. You can install these using your distribution's package manager.

{% include tip.html content="A [package manager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Package_manager) in Linux is a system used to install or remove software
(usually originating from the Internet) on your computer. With Ubuntu, you can use the Ubuntu Software Center. Even better, you may also use the `apt-get install`
command directly in the Terminal." %}

{%- capture cpu_architecture %}
{%- if device.architecture.cpu -%}
   {{ device.architecture.cpu }}
{%- else -%}
   {{ device.architecture }}
{%- endif -%}
{%- endcapture -%}

To build LineageOS, you'll need:

* `bc bison build-essential ccache curl flex g++-multilib gcc-multilib git gnupg gperf imagemagick
   lib32ncurses5-dev lib32readline-dev lib32z1-dev liblz4-tool libncurses5-dev
   libsdl1.2-dev libssl-dev libwxgtk3.0-dev libxml2 libxml2-utils lzop pngcrush rsync
   schedtool squashfs-tools xsltproc {% if cpu_architecture contains 'x86' %}yasm {% endif %}
   zip zlib1g-dev`

{% if device.versions contains 13.0 %}
To build LineageOS 13.0, you'll also need:

* `maven`
{% endif %}

For Ubuntu versions older than 16.04 (xenial), substitute:

* `libwxgtk3.0-dev` → `libwxgtk2.8-dev`

#### Java

Different versions of LineageOS require different JDK (Java Development Kit) versions.

* LineageOS 14.1-15.1: OpenJDK 1.8 (install `openjdk-8-jdk`)
* LineageOS 11.0-13.0: OpenJDK 1.7 (install `openjdk-7-jdk`)\*

\* Ubuntu 16.04 and newer do not have OpenJDK 1.7 in the standard package repositories. See the *Ask Ubuntu* question "[How do I install openjdk 7 on Ubuntu 16.04 or higher?](http://askubuntu.com/questions/761127/how-do-i-install-openjdk-7-on-ubuntu-16-04-or-higher)". Note that the suggestion to use PPA openjdk-r is outdated (the PPA has never updated their offering of openjdk-7-jdk, so it lacks security fixes); skip that answer even if it is the most upvoted.

### Create the directories

You'll need to set up some directories in your build environment.

To create them:

```
mkdir -p ~/bin
mkdir -p ~/android/lineage
```

The `~/bin` directory will contain the git-repo tool (commonly named "repo") and the `~/android/lineage` directory will contain the source code of LineageOS.

### Install the `repo` command

Enter the following to download the `repo` binary and make it executable (runnable):

```
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/bin/repo
chmod a+x ~/bin/repo
```

### Put the `~/bin` directory in your path of execution

In recent versions of Ubuntu, `~/bin` should already be in your PATH. You can check this by opening `~/.profile` with a text editor and verifying the following code exists (add it if it is missing):

```
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
if [ -d "$HOME/bin" ] ; then
    PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"
fi
```

Then, run `source ~/.profile` to update your environment.

### Initialize the LineageOS source repository

{% if device.maintainers != empty %}
The following branches are officially supported for the {{ device.vendor }} {{ device.name }}:
{% else %}
The following branches can be used to build for the {{ device.vendor }} {{ device.name }}:
{% endif %}

{% for version in device.versions %}
{% if version < 15 %}
* cm-{{ version }}
{% else %}
* lineage-{{ version }}
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}

Enter the following to initialize the repository:

{% include note.html content="Make sure the branch you enter here is the one you wish to build!" %}

```
cd ~/android/lineage
repo init -u https://github.com/LineageOS/android.git -b {% if device.current_branch < 15 %}cm{% else %}lineage{% endif %}-{{ device.current_branch }}
```

### Download the source code

To start the download of the source code to your computer, type the following:

```
repo sync
```

The LineageOS manifests include a sensible default configuration for repo, which we strongly suggest you use (i.e. don't add any options to sync).
For reference, our default values are `-j 4` and `-c`. The `-j 4` part means that there will be four simultaneous threads/connections. If you experience
problems syncing, you can lower this to `-j 3` or `-j 2`. On the other hand, `-c` will ask repo to pull in only the current branch instead of all branches that are available on GitHub.

{% include note.html content="This may take a while, depending on your internet speed. Go and have a beer/coffee/tea/nap in the meantime!" %}

{% include tip.html content="The `repo sync` command is used to update the latest source code from LineageOS and Google. Remember it, as you may want to
do it every few days to keep your code base fresh and up-to-date." %}

### Prepare the device-specific code

After the source downloads, ensure you're in the root of the source code (`cd ~/android/lineage`), then type:

```
source build/envsetup.sh
breakfast {{ device.codename }}
```

This will download your device's [device specific configuration](https://github.com/LineageOS/{{ device.tree }}) and
[kernel](https://github.com/LineageOS/{{ device.kernel }}).

{% include important.html content="Some devices require a vendor directory to be populated before breakfast will succeed. If you receive an error here about vendor
makefiles, jump down to [_Extract proprietary blobs_](#extract-proprietary-blobs). The first portion of breakfast should have succeeded, and after completing you can [rerun
`breakfast`](#prepare-the-device-specific-code)" %}

### Extract proprietary blobs

{% include note.html content="This step requires to have a device already running the latest LineageOS, based on the branch you wish to build for. If you don't have access to such device, refer to [Extracting proprietary blobs from installable zip](/extracting_blobs_from_zips.html)." %}

Now ensure your {{ device.name }} is connected to your computer via the USB cable, with ADB and root enabled, and that you are in the
`~/android/lineage/device/{{ device.vendor_short }}/{{ device.codename }}` folder. Then run the `extract-files.sh` script:

```
./extract-files.sh
```

The blobs should be pulled into the `~/android/lineage/vendor/{{ device.vendor_short }}` folder. If you see "command not found" errors, `adb` may
need to be placed in `~/bin`.

### Turn on caching to speed up build

Make use of [`ccache`](https://ccache.samba.org/) if you want to speed up subsequent builds by running:

```
export USE_CCACHE=1
```

and adding that line to your `~/.bashrc` file. Then, specify the maximum amount of disk space you want `ccache` to use by typing this:

```
ccache -M 50G
```

where `50G` corresponds to 50GB of cache. This needs to be run once. Anywhere from 25GB-100GB will result in very noticeably increased build speeds
(for instance, a typical 1hr build time can be reduced to 20min). If you're only building for one device, 25GB-50GB is fine. If you plan to build
for several devices that do not share the same kernel source, aim for 75GB-100GB. This space will be permanently occupied on your drive, so take this
into consideration. See more information about ccache on Google's [Android build environment initialization page](https://source.android.com/source/initializing.html#setting-up-ccache).

You can also enable the optional `ccache` compression. While this may involve a slight performance slowdown, it increases the number of files that fit in the cache. To enable it, run:

```
export CCACHE_COMPRESS=1
```

or add that line to your `~/.bashrc` file.

{% include note.html content="If compression is enabled, the `ccache` size can be lower (aim for approximately 20GB for one device)." %}


{% if device.current_branch >= 14 %}
### Configure jack

[Jack](http://source.android.com/source/jack.html) is the currently used Java toolchain for building LineageOS 14.1 and up. It is known to run out of memory often if not configured correctly - a simple fix is to run this command:

```
export ANDROID_JACK_VM_ARGS="-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -XX:+TieredCompilation -Xmx4G"
```

Adding that command to your `~/.bashrc` file will automatically configure Jack to allocate a sufficient amount of memory (in this case, 4GB).
{% endif %}

### Start the build

Time to start building! Now, type:

```
croot
brunch {{device.codename}}
```

The build should begin.

{% include tip.html content="Want to learn how to sign your own builds? Take a look at [Signing builds](/signing_builds.html)." %}


## Install the build

Assuming the build completed without errors (it will be obvious when it finishes), type the following in the terminal window the build ran in:

```
cd $OUT
```

There you'll find all the files that were created. The two files of more interest are:

1. `recovery.img`, which is the LineageOS recovery image.
2. `lineage-{{ device.current_branch }}-{{ site.time | date: "%Y%m%d" }}-UNOFFICIAL-{{ device.codename }}.zip`, which is the LineageOS
installer package.

### Success! So... what's next?

You've done it! Welcome to the elite club of self-builders. You've built your operating system from scratch, from the ground up. You are the master/mistress of your domain... and
hopefully you've learned a bit on the way and had some fun too.

## To get assistance

* [#LineageOS-dev](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=lineageos-dev) - A helpful, real-time chat room (or "channel"), on the Freenode [IRC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat) network.
