pages/contributing_wiki.md, before:

---
sidebar: home_sidebar
title: Contributing to the wiki
folder: meta
permalink: contributing_wiki.html
---
So, you've decided you want to edit the wiki. Awesome! This page will show you how to get started. Please follow the instructions that are most appropriate for you.

## Cloning the wiki

### Using repo

If you already have a LineageOS source tree checked out, then this step is done for you. The wiki's git repository is present under `$LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki`.

### Using git

If you don't have a LineageOS source tree on your device, then you can clone the wiki from GitHub to any directory you like. In this example, we'll use `~/lineage_wiki`.

#### Install Git

##### On Windows

Install [Git for Windows](https://git-for-windows.github.io/).

##### On macOS

Install Git using the [Git installer](https://git-scm.com/download/mac).

##### On Linux

You can install Git by running:

```
sudo apt-get install git
```

More specific instructions for different distributions can be found [here](https://git-scm.com/download/linux).

#### Configure Git

Run:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"
```

{% include alerts/tip.html content="Before this step, you can fork the LineageOS wiki repository and work on your own copy. That way you can preview your changes online using GitHub pages, which [we've detailed below](#preview-using-github). Just fork the repo and then replace LineageOS in the `git clone` command with your GitHub username." %}

```
git clone https://github.com/LineageOS/lineage_wiki ~/lineage_wiki
cd ~/lineage_wiki
curl -Lo .git/hooks/commit-msg https://review.lineageos.org/tools/hooks/commit-msg
chmod +x .git/hooks/commit-msg
```

## Making and previewing changes

You can now make changes in this folder using your favorite text editor. If you ever need to reset your folder to a known-good state, erasing your changes, just run:

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```

### Preview using GitHub

This is probably the easiest method, but requires you to have forked the wiki repository, and have cloned from that.

#### Commit and preview your changes

Run:

```
git add .
git commit
```

An editor will pop up. In the first line, type a short (below 80 character) description of your changes,
then put a blank line, and, if you want, a more detailed description of your changes. For example:
```
Add the contributing page

The contributing page will show people how they can edit our wiki, which
is important, since it wouldn't be much of a wiki without editors.
```
Save the file and exit the editor. Now upload your changes to GitHub:

```
git push origin
```

Preview your changes - you can see your fork of the wiki at `http://yourusername.github.io/lineage_wiki`.

#### Fixing mistakes

So, you've made your change, and you can look at the wiki on GitHub pages. But something's wrong!
You made a typo - or accidentally deleted something. Have no fear! You can fix it.

First, fix the mistake(s) you made. Then, to push them to GitHub:

```
git add .
git commit --amend
```

Your commit message should show up in an editor. You can edit it, or just quit the editor.
Finally, run:

```
git push --force origin
```

### Preview locally using docker

{% include alerts/warning.html content="Docker requires a 64 bit OS. If you do not have a 64 bit OS, do not continue." %}

#### Install docker

Add docker keyring and install the package:

```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
sudo apt update
sudo apt install docker-ce
```

Add your user account to the _docker_ group in order to use docker commands without prefixing `sudo`:

```
sudo gpasswd -a $USER docker
newgrp docker
```

Then log out of your user account and log back in or reboot to make the group membership changes take effect.

#### Build the docker image

This builds the docker image, which should only need to be done once:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki #Or to wherever you cloned the repository
docker build -t lineageos/wiki .
```

#### Edit the wiki

Each time that you want to edit the wiki, you will need to start a local web server running Jekyll:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
docker run -p 4000:4000 -v $(pwd):/src -it lineageos/wiki
```

At this point you should be able to view the [local Jekyll server](http://127.0.0.1:4000).

### Preview locally using rvm and jekyll

#### Install `rvm`

`rvm` is a great tool to isolate different usages of ruby from each other. During this setup, you will install `ruby` and a set of ruby modules (gems) which will be isolated from any other ruby use on the machine (now and in the future).

If you don't have `rvm` already installed, go ahead and install it:

```
gpg --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3
curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
```

#### Configure `ruby` for editing the wiki

These steps will configure and install the latest version of ruby MRI via `rvm`. All gems (modules) are stored in the namespace `lineage_wiki` and the environment will be configured to allow remote access to GitHub. Once configured, `ruby` will be installed and the required gems downloaded:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
echo ruby > .ruby-version
echo lineage_wiki > .ruby-gemset
rvm install ruby
gem install bundler rails
bundle install
```

#### Edit the wiki

Each time that you want to edit the wiki, you will need to start a local web server running Jekyll:

```
source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
bundle exec jekyll serve --incremental
```

At this point you should be able to view the [local Jekyll server](http://127.0.0.1:4000).

{% include alerts/tip.html content="The incremental flag will cause Jekyll to only reprocess each page as you change it (without the incremental flag, it would reprocess the entire site which takes 10-30+ seconds depending on your hardware). This works very well when editing meta pages but is a little annoying when editing the data/device/name.yml files. When editing those files you will need to save the data and then touch the `.md` file of the page that you are viewing in the browser. An easy way to do that is: `touch pages/*/<devicename>*`" %}

{% include alerts/note.html content="If you work on a remote server and trust the network on which you are connected, you can add `--host <fully-qualified hostname>` to the Jekyll command line to allow remote connections to the server." %}


## Uploading your changes

LineageOS uses [Gerrit](https://review.lineageos.org/) to review proposed changes. Before you begin,
you'll need to [create an account](https://review.lineageos.org/login/%23%2Fregister%2Fq%2Fstatus%3Aopen),
and [configure an SSH key](https://review.lineageos.org/Documentation/user-upload.html#ssh) (you will need to use the **ed25519** type of key).

After you've done this, you can push your commits to Gerrit:

```
git remote add gerrit ssh://<gerritusername>@review.lineageos.org:29418/LineageOS/lineage_wiki
git push gerrit HEAD:refs/for/master
```

You can add the "Wiki Editors" group as reviewers (click on the little person to the right of "reviewers").
Someone will either: comment on the patch, asking for clarification or pointing out typos.
You can reply to them, or [fix any issues they point out](#fixing-mistakes), and then re-run:

```
git push gerrit HEAD:refs/for/master
```

Eventually, when your change looks _perfect_, someone will approve it, and submit it to the wiki. Awesome!

Commit message:

wiki: Add google account requirement
* For contributing to the wiki and for submitting patches in general
  we tell users to create an account. Also let them know this will
  require a google account and it may not be removed later to keep
  the login working

Change-Id: Ia4f430231180e88ce89030348c3c6b993fc481f2

pages/contributing_wiki.md, after:

---
sidebar: home_sidebar
title: Contributing to the wiki
folder: meta
permalink: contributing_wiki.html
---
So, you've decided you want to edit the wiki. Awesome! This page will show you how to get started. Please follow the instructions that are most appropriate for you.

## Cloning the wiki

### Using repo

If you already have a LineageOS source tree checked out, then this step is done for you. The wiki's git repository is present under `$LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki`.

### Using git

If you don't have a LineageOS source tree on your device, then you can clone the wiki from GitHub to any directory you like. In this example, we'll use `~/lineage_wiki`.

#### Install Git

##### On Windows

Install [Git for Windows](https://git-for-windows.github.io/).

##### On macOS

Install Git using the [Git installer](https://git-scm.com/download/mac).

##### On Linux

You can install Git by running:

```
sudo apt-get install git
```

More specific instructions for different distributions can be found [here](https://git-scm.com/download/linux).

#### Configure Git

Run:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"
```

{% include alerts/tip.html content="Before this step, you can fork the LineageOS wiki repository and work on your own copy. That way you can preview your changes online using GitHub pages, which [we've detailed below](#preview-using-github). Just fork the repo and then replace LineageOS in the `git clone` command with your GitHub username." %}

```
git clone https://github.com/LineageOS/lineage_wiki ~/lineage_wiki
cd ~/lineage_wiki
curl -Lo .git/hooks/commit-msg https://review.lineageos.org/tools/hooks/commit-msg
chmod +x .git/hooks/commit-msg
```

## Making and previewing changes

You can now make changes in this folder using your favorite text editor. If you ever need to reset your folder to a known-good state, erasing your changes, just run:

```
git reset --hard HEAD
```

### Preview using GitHub

This is probably the easiest method, but requires you to have forked the wiki repository, and have cloned from that.

#### Commit and preview your changes

Run:

```
git add .
git commit
```

An editor will pop up. In the first line, type a short (below 80 character) description of your changes,
then put a blank line, and, if you want, a more detailed description of your changes. For example:
```
Add the contributing page

The contributing page will show people how they can edit our wiki, which
is important, since it wouldn't be much of a wiki without editors.
```
Save the file and exit the editor. Now upload your changes to GitHub:

```
git push origin
```

Preview your changes - you can see your fork of the wiki at `http://yourusername.github.io/lineage_wiki`.

#### Fixing mistakes

So, you've made your change, and you can look at the wiki on GitHub pages. But something's wrong!
You made a typo - or accidentally deleted something. Have no fear! You can fix it.

First, fix the mistake(s) you made. Then, to push them to GitHub:

```
git add .
git commit --amend
```

Your commit message should show up in an editor. You can edit it, or just quit the editor.
Finally, run:

```
git push --force origin
```

### Preview locally using docker

{% include alerts/warning.html content="Docker requires a 64 bit OS. If you do not have a 64 bit OS, do not continue." %}

#### Install docker

Add docker keyring and install the package:

```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
sudo apt update
sudo apt install docker-ce
```

Add your user account to the _docker_ group in order to use docker commands without prefixing `sudo`:

```
sudo gpasswd -a $USER docker
newgrp docker
```

Then log out of your user account and log back in or reboot to make the group membership changes take effect.

#### Build the docker image

This builds the docker image, which should only need to be done once:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki #Or to wherever you cloned the repository
docker build -t lineageos/wiki .
```

#### Edit the wiki

Each time that you want to edit the wiki, you will need to start a local web server running Jekyll:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
docker run -p 4000:4000 -v $(pwd):/src -it lineageos/wiki
```

At this point you should be able to view the [local Jekyll server](http://127.0.0.1:4000).

### Preview locally using rvm and jekyll

#### Install `rvm`

`rvm` is a great tool to isolate different usages of ruby from each other. During this setup, you will install `ruby` and a set of ruby modules (gems) which will be isolated from any other ruby use on the machine (now and in the future).

If you don't have `rvm` already installed, go ahead and install it:

```
gpg --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3
curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
```

#### Configure `ruby` for editing the wiki

These steps will configure and install the latest version of ruby MRI via `rvm`. All gems (modules) are stored in the namespace `lineage_wiki` and the environment will be configured to allow remote access to GitHub. Once configured, `ruby` will be installed and the required gems downloaded:

```
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
echo ruby > .ruby-version
echo lineage_wiki > .ruby-gemset
rvm install ruby
gem install bundler rails
bundle install
```

#### Edit the wiki

Each time that you want to edit the wiki, you will need to start a local web server running Jekyll:

```
source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
cd $LINEAGE_SRC/lineage/wiki
bundle exec jekyll serve --incremental
```

At this point you should be able to view the [local Jekyll server](http://127.0.0.1:4000).

{% include alerts/tip.html content="The incremental flag will cause Jekyll to only reprocess each page as you change it (without the incremental flag, it would reprocess the entire site which takes 10-30+ seconds depending on your hardware). This works very well when editing meta pages but is a little annoying when editing the data/device/name.yml files. When editing those files you will need to save the data and then touch the `.md` file of the page that you are viewing in the browser. An easy way to do that is: `touch pages/*/<devicename>*`" %}

{% include alerts/note.html content="If you work on a remote server and trust the network on which you are connected, you can add `--host <fully-qualified hostname>` to the Jekyll command line to allow remote connections to the server." %}


## Uploading your changes

LineageOS uses [Gerrit](https://review.lineageos.org/) to review proposed changes. Before you begin,
you'll need to [create an account](https://review.lineageos.org/login/%23%2Fregister%2Fq%2Fstatus%3Aopen),
and [configure an SSH key](https://review.lineageos.org/Documentation/user-upload.html#ssh) (you will need to use the **ed25519** type of key).

{% include alerts/note.html content="Creating a Gerrit account requires you to log in with Google. Be aware that if you delete or unlink all Google accounts associated with your Gerrit account, you won't be able to log in anymore!" %}

After you've done this, you can push your commits to Gerrit:

```
git remote add gerrit ssh://<gerritusername>@review.lineageos.org:29418/LineageOS/lineage_wiki
git push gerrit HEAD:refs/for/master
```

You can add the "Wiki Editors" group as reviewers (click on the little person to the right of "reviewers").
Someone will either: comment on the patch, asking for clarification or pointing out typos.
You can reply to them, or [fix any issues they point out](#fixing-mistakes), and then re-run:

```
git push gerrit HEAD:refs/for/master
```

Eventually, when your change looks _perfect_, someone will approve it, and submit it to the wiki. Awesome!
